Carnegie Mellon University challenges the curious and passionate to imagine and deliver work that matters.

A private, global research university, Carnegie Mellon stands among the world's most renowned educational institutions, and sets its own course. Start the journey here.

With cutting-edge brain science, path-breaking performances, innovative start-ups, driverless cars, big data, big ambitions, Nobel and Turing prizes, hands-on learning, and a whole lot of robots, CMU doesn't imagine the future, we create it. 
Andrew Carnegie famously said, "My heart is in the work." At CMU, we think about work a little differently...
Many seek Pittsburgh for being a hot spot for entrepreneurship and a model for future cities. Others come for the city's burgeoning food scene.

Tour our growing urban campus, nestled in one of Pittsburgh's oldest neighborhoods. Have a bite to eat at Rohr in the Tepper Building. Walk the "Cut" and check out the Fence. Take in a theater performance with one of our rising Broadway stars. Attend a lecture with our internationally renowned faculty. Talk to the students, faculty and staff who make up the CMU community.

We welcome you to our campus.
A research university like no other, Carnegie Mellon is home to experts who lead their fields and create new ones.
From computing to the arts to the environment to biotechnology, CMU students, faculty and staff are shaping the future with a strong focus on finding practical answers to complex problems.

Home to more than 100 centers and institutes, CMU affords its researchers the freedom to look across disciplines for solutions, benefiting from many perspectives.
Research is at the core of Carnegie Mellon and touches nearly every corner of the university. It's not by accident.
Learn how research plays an important role in the university's Strategic Plan. 

The Carnegie Mellon University experience embraces all aspects of a student's life.
In the classroom, around the dinner table, on the playing fields or on stage, students pursue their curiosities, passions and aspirations. 
Travel the globe. Break boundaries. Now’s your chance.
At CMU, students become skilled and passionate scholars who embrace challenges and work across disciplines to find creative solutions to complex issues.

Build community. Be well. Take the lead.
Carnegie Mellon supports your social, physical, mental and spiritual well-being, so you can thrive.
Hundreds of student organizations, along with expanded recreation programs, encourage community engagement in a way that is comprehensive, holistic and forward thinking.  

Make an impact. Broaden horizons. Open eyes.
Carnegie Mellon students are global citizens, engaging new people and experiences, building cross-cultural fluency and seeing to the welfare of others.

Network. Create a career. Blaze a trail.
Carnegie Mellon gives its graduates the communication skills, organizational savvy and leadership training to succeed throughout life. 

Experiential learning, problem-solving and the ability to put classroom knowledge to work creates the foundation for careers and more.

At Carnegie Mellon, undergraduates are building mobile robots, creating documentary films, investigating cultural trends, and developing new digital communication technology.  These student researchers find themselves in the heart of the University intellectual community, where they discover the thrilling (and often messy) process of creating new knowledge.

We use a broad definition of research that includes appropriate activities in the arts and humanities, as well as the sciences and technical fields: "Research, scholarly, or artistic activities that lead to the production of new knowledge; to increased problem solving capabilities, including design and analysis; to original critical or historical theory and interpretation; or to the production of art or artistic performance."

The Undergraduate Research Office supports student research in every field of study.  We give SURG & SURG/CW grants to cover research expenses, Summer Fellowships for full-time summer research, and Presentation Awards to support students presenting at academic conferences.  In May of each year, we hold our campus-wide celebration of undergraduate research, the Meeting of the Minds.
So what's your idea?

Where Will Your Path Take You?
The Study Abroad staff in the Office of International Education (OIE) support Carnegie Mellon students through every step of the process.
To begin exploring opportunities for a study, work/intern, or research abroad experience, we encourage students to first submit an electronic Study Abroad Interest Form via our CMU Study Abroad Portal. The portal is the best place to find out how to schedule a one-on-one meeting with a study abroad advisor, when to attend an information session, and search for opportunities abroad. The opportunities listed within the portal are not exhaustive; please contact us if you do not see a program in which you wish to participate. 

Student Experiences
Carnegie Mellon students and alumni report that studying abroad was one of the most valuable experiences of their lives. It is a time of growth and change in many areas - academic, professional, personal, and intercultural. Students report that studying abroad provided them with increased problem solving skills, better foreign language abilities, new professional contacts, more independence, an enhanced awareness and appreciation of their home culture, and a stronger interest in other cultures.

A Unique Experience
Carnegie Mellon is a special place. Highly talented faculty and undergraduate students are drawn here to study at our top-ranked departments in the College of Engineering, the College of Fine Arts, the Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences, the Mellon College of Science, the School of Computer Science, and the Tepper School of Business.

Students at Carnegie Mellon participate in IDeATe as part of their primary majors to explore how their emerging skills and expertise can interact with those of their fellow students. Through this collaborative work, they can begin to understand how their work can change and grow when they team up with an expert from a different disciplinary perspective.

"This is an extraordinary time for Carnegie Mellon University. With its world-leading strengths at the intersection of technology and humanity, CMU research, innovation and creativity will help shape the 21st century."