GET READY TO EXPLORE, EXPERIENCE, AND DISCOVER.
With 56 majors and 35 minors, Colby offers the ideal liberal arts and sciences environment: the variety you need for wide exploration and the depth you need to focus in your area (or areas) of interest. Along the way you’ll gain the tools and experience to master any profession and adapt to any circumstance. Heading for a career in medicine, law, or engineering? We have the courses and advising to get you ready—while ensuring you graduate with the liberal arts and sciences knowledge and skill set that will make you a better doctor, attorney, or engineer.

They’re world-class scholars and teachers who dive deeply into major issues facing our world. From research assistantships and independent study projects, to summer experiences and excursions abroad, they view collaboration with students as essential to the work they do. What’s more, students who work with professors often become co-authors of books, articles, and papers, and travel to national and international conferences, all before they receive a degree.

At Colby you’ll spend January doing just one thing of your choosing. Our innovative winter term is about exploration, expansion, freedom, and the chance to really focus. Do research in Belize. Shadow an oncologist at a local hospital. Take an internship in Miami. Become an EMT. Make a movie. Follow your fascination. Try something entirely new. Whatever it is, spend January in motion.

It’s in our DNA—the tendency to ask tough questions and allocate brain space to search for solutions. The opportunities are here for any student who wants to get involved. Dive into one-on-one collaborations with professors in any major throughout the year—on campus and around the world. Publish and present. Partner with leading research institutes. Tap into ample grant support. Be part of an annual student symposium for which classes are canceled and everyone shows up.

It’s the hallmark of the liberal arts experience: the opportunity to explore your interests broadly and to specialize in the field (or fields) of your interest. At Colby our centers, partners, and multidisciplinary curriculum give you the flexibility to always be discovering and the skills and connections you need to stake your path.

At Colby you’ll be a resident of Maine, but a citizen of the world. An international student body makes campus a global gathering place, and nearly 70 percent of students choose to live and learn abroad. You’ll choose among 200 programs in more than 60 countries—for a semester or for a year or for the month of January. Through cultural immersion, you’ll learn how to navigate a world with rapidly shifting boundaries.

It’s a novel idea: start your college adventure across the Atlantic as part of our innovative experiences for first-year students in Salamanca, Spain, or Dijon, France. Take challenging courses. Learn Spanish or French through total immersion. Live with a local family. Travel extensively. See the sights. Savor the culture. Soak in the opportunity to pack years of personal and intellectual growth into a single semester.

Community results from creating the right set of conditions. We start by assembling a diverse class of fascinating, curious people and giving them places to gather, opportunities to celebrate, and the support they need to thrive. First-years live together in clusters located in residence halls with upperclassmen, allowing them to experience the transition to college with those who are also going through it while drawing on the wisdom and experience of older students. The dining halls are supported by an on-campus, student-run organic garden.

BE PART OF SOMETHING BIGGER THAN YOURSELF.
We define learning in broad terms. Beyond your classes and research and labs, you’ll fill your days and strengthen your core by doing the things you love. Choose among more than 100 existing options—club sports, publications, service efforts, cultural groups, campus government, political organizations, and an exciting variety of ensembles—or start your own. Propelled by our students’ interests and appetites, Colby is ever evolving.

Compassion is a lifelong virtue that is strengthened through experience. At Colby you’ll combine energy, heart, and smarts to make positive and lasting contributions to local and far-flung communities. Supported by the Colby Volunteer Center, Colby students invest more than 32,000 hours each year—including mentoring kids, building community, addressing inequities, or launching bold new ideas for productive, cooperative engagement. You’ll grow as a person while improving the world around you.

We offer some of the best opportunities in the country for blossoming visual and performing artists. Brand new art studios, dedicated world-class professors, the finest college art museum in the country (and the largest museum in the state), and a premier collection of American art all enhance the learning experience. Courses range from printmaking to interactive digital media to stagecraft and everywhere in between. Supported by events featuring internationally renowned filmmakers, artists, and activists, Colby’s art culture flourishes.

Driven by pride of affiliation, natural talent, and tremendous smarts, our student-athletes (the Mules, of course) excel—on game day and every day in between. Proud member of the New England Small College Athletic Conference and the NCAA Division III, Colby offers 32 varsity teams, 15 club sports (including the co-ed woodsmen’s team), and nine intramural sports—including broomball (think ice hockey without skates).

You’ll prepare for your first year at Colby by getting to know Maine’s outdoor and cultural landscape with a small group of classmates (off campus and quite possibly out of your comfort zone)—whether through wilderness adventures, artistic pursuits, or culinary explorations. For three days before fall semester classes start, Colby upperclassmen lead you through new terrain while teaching you the basics of college life. You’ll make lasting friendships, find your inner explorer, and discover the spectacular beauty and richness of Maine. Learn more about COOT.

THE WORLD APPROACHES. WE'LL GET YOU READY.
Life is a series of important decisions. At Colby you’ll never have to make them alone. Whether picking classes in your first year, choosing a major, finding the perfect internship, or nailing your dream job interview, you’ll be guided by advisors who know you, professors who believe in you, and career counselors with the knowledge and connections to get you ready for the big stage.

mployers expect applicants to show up for an interview with experience on their résumés. So we do everything we can to help students land internships, make meaningful connections, and gain professional know-how. Our professors, alumni, and Career Center counselors will help you find, land, and fund internship experiences in your area interest—and even get academic credit for them.

They succeed for a reason. They worked hard to get to Colby in the first place. They gained broad, informed perspectives in their journey through the liberal arts and sciences. They logged valuable experience in the lab and global classroom. They land jobs at leading companies and organizations, win prestigious postgraduate fellowships, and earn advanced degrees at the world’s leading universities. They’re leaders and influencers who nevertheless take time to give back to current students.
Ensuring the most talented students from every background have access to the best possible education.

We’ve removed financial barriers. We’ve simplified the application process. We’ve enhanced the opportunities and support that lead to success in college and careers. And we have given every admitted student the chance to graduate without loans to repay.
Through the Colby Commitment, we pledge to meet 100 percent of each admitted student’s demonstrated financial need without loans. For the Class of 2022, more than 95 percent of families with an income of $200,000 or less qualified for financial aid.

If your family has a total income of $65,000 or less and has assets typical of this income range, we’ve ensured they will have a parent or guardian contribution of $0.
For families earning up to $150,000 with assets typical of that range, our Fair Shot Fund now ensures your parent or guardian contribution will be capped at $15,000 — which may make Colby cost less for you than any other four-year college or university.

We work closely with leading college-access programs, groups, and organizations to help the nation’s brightest young scholars find their way to Colby.
From faculty mentors to career counselors to coaches and alumni, the people of Colby create a supportive atmosphere that deepens learning both within and beyond the classroom—while providing the advising, services, and opportunities students need to grow.

Colby has a deep and longstanding commitment to our home state of Maine. Our admissions team provides college access workshops and enrichment opportunities for interested counselors statewide, and we offer travel grants for Maine community-based organizations to visit our campus.

One of the nation’s premier liberal arts colleges, Colby offers 56 majors and 35 minors, world-class teaching, and outstanding opportunities for research, internships, and global experiences. Located on 714 gorgeous acres in Waterville, Maine, Colby is home to 2,000 of the world’s brightest undergraduates.

Educational exploration is a way of life at Colby. Academics are rigorous, and learning goes way beyond sitting in a classroom—it’s enhanced by new experiences, real-world research, and project-based problem solving across all disciplines.
Colby’s academic rigor shouldn’t be intimidating because we’re here to help you succeed. Resources for academic help are almost everywhere. And if you don’t see what you need, just ask. At Colby, academic support is a College priority and a community value.

Choose from 58 majors and 35 minors, or design your own independent major. You’ll have extensive flexibility and valuable guidance when it comes to preparing for your future.

Colby’s 2,000 students come from nearly every state and more than 70 countries to take advantage of our renowned academic programs, a curriculum that encourages educational exploration, and collaborative learning experiences led by world-class professors.

Our exploratory Jan Plan term, extensive study-abroad opportunities, and graduate-level research experiences are pillars of the Colby education. In both the classroom and the field, students work closely with professors—a collaboration that is transformational for both and often results in lifelong connections.

Cocurricular and campus life programs optimize learning opportunities and help students develop leadership and communication skills. Members of the Colby community come from a range of backgrounds and offer diverse perspectives. Every member of the community has different experiences to share, enriching classroom and dining hall discussions.

Our liberal arts curriculum, combined with many other facets of the Colby experience, prepares students for postgraduate success in nearly every field imaginable. Students graduate with the skills and experience that employers and grad schools desire.
