Colgate University is a distinctive, leading university known for its intellectual rigor, world-class professors, campus of stunning beauty, and alumni famously loyal to their alma mater.

A modern leader in liberal arts education, drawing on centuries of tradition.
Colgate is a distinctive, leading American university known for its intellectual rigor, world-class professors, campus of stunning beauty, and alumni famously loyal to their alma mater.

"All of these classmates, each of whom I felt embody Colgate, are Colgate, were completely unlike anyone else. They’re all different from everyone around them, and the identity we see on their surface says nothing to their full individual reality. It is that uniqueness, those hidden complexities, those unexpected trailblazing biographies: that is what screams ‘Colgate’ to me."

Time and time again, the world has shown an urgent need for citizens with the ability to create, explore, examine, and connect human knowledge. Colgate University has been answering that call through centuries of academic rigor in the liberal arts tradition.

Colgate attracts world-renowned faculty in a breadth of subject matters as well as innovative leaders in higher-ed administration, all dedicated to building on an educational tradition that has prepared generations of Colgate graduates for success.

From a commitment to diversity, inclusion, and access, to a dedication to all aspects of student wellbeing, to academic and support services built to sustain graduates throughout their career path, Colgate University offers unmatched resources to all members of the community.

"Coming here and having the opportunity to choose from not just the classes for my major, but any other classes being offered at Colgate, allowed me to diversify my knowledge, and it also allowed me to experience the value of being well-rounded."

Colgate University students pursue intellectual passions under the mentorship of leading experts.
Bachelor of arts degree programs at Colgate University offer a distinctive approach to liberal arts education, exploring a wide variety of subjects rooted in critical thinking, powerful communication, and creative problem-solving. 

Colgate’s liberal arts curriculum introduces students to the power of rigorous discourse, intellectual curiosity, and the energetic pursuit of knowledge. Students explore evolving links between disciplines. They apply principles of modern thought as they engage with significant questions surrounding the human experience.

Our students develop and apply knowledge. Colgate’s commitment to academic rigor lives in each new discovery.
Explore student research opportunities that allow undergraduates to work directly with faculty members on graduate-level projects that often result in co-authored academic papers. Learn more about a world of off-campus study programs that help students expand their perspective and the context of their learning.

Immersive Learning
Colgate prepares students to think critically and communicate effectively — strengths that will help them succeed in a variety of fields.
Pre-professional programs help students develop relevant, essential skills. They also offer career planning experiences in dynamic fields such as health sciences, communications, law, engineering, and business.

Colgate University is an active, intellectually curious campus community, where life and learning transcend disciplines, cultures, and classrooms.
Students at Colgate live, work, and study in one of the country’s most historic and beautiful learning environments. Each student is an essential part of a tight-knit community that shares a common purpose and nurtures close bonds of lifelong friendship.

"I realized I had found something that was missing from every other school that I’d looked at — I loved how passionate everybody was about Colgate."

A residential campus, nearly all Colgate students live on campus, set among the lush, rolling hills of Hamilton, New York. Learn more about student living facilities, programs such as the Residential Commons living-learning communities, and the campus dining experience.

Offering more than 200 student clubs and organizations, life at Colgate is vibrant and exciting. Opportunities abound for personal development, cultivating academic and personal interests beyond the classroom.
Learn more about Colgate athletics, recreational sports and facilities, physical education program, outdoor education, and more.

Colgate is home to 25 NCAA Division I athletic teams and numerous club and intramural sports programs. While Colgate students cheer for the Raiders, they also advance their physical wellness through a wide variety of fitness and recreational activities.
Learn more about Colgate athletics, recreational sports and facilities, physical education program, outdoor education, and more.

Colgate is committed to promoting and maintaining a diverse student body and campus community from a wide variety of cultures and backgrounds. Colgate students are unified in a shared pursuit of knowledge.
Learn about diversity and inclusion programming, cultural organizations, and resources.

The university's Mission Statement is an important assertion of the university's purpose and principles.
Brian Casey narrates this video that describes a moment, the moment. This is why we do what we do.
Colgate's mission is to provide a demanding, expansive, educational experience to a select group of diverse, talented, intellectually sophisticated students who are capable of challenging themselves, their peers, and their teachers in a setting that brings together living and learning. The purpose of the university is to develop wise, thoughtful, critical thinkers and perceptive leaders by challenging young men and women to fulfill their potential through residence in a community that values intellectual rigor and respects the complexity of human understanding.

Colgate University is a small highly selective residential liberal arts college for men and women of talent who are preparing for lives of leadership and productive citizenship. The Colgate faculty is a community of scholars committed to teaching in the classroom, the laboratory, the studio, and the library. Teaching is Colgate's first responsibility, serving not only to transmit knowledge but also to transform and extend it through a demanding, imaginative curriculum. Faculty scholarship complements teaching as it advances knowledge. Colgate maintains that ideal size which allows students to work closely with the faculty; it is neither a giant research university nor a tiny liberal arts college. The dialogue between faculty and students provides exciting opportunities for independent work.

As a residential college, Colgate is committed to the belief that learning takes place in many settings. Learning must serve life, and the opportunity to live together in a variety of settings encourages interpersonal exploration, expands mutual understanding, and supports a broadened perspective within a caring, humane community. The residential community provides a setting in which students gain maturity by taking responsibility for their actions and by coming to understand the impact of those actions upon others in an environment that is neither permissive nor authoritarian, but conducive to purposeful engagement.

Colgate is an inclusive institution with diverse students and faculty. With a mission to educate leaders who will and must come from all societal groups, Colgate is committed to educate students to virtue and encourages them to respond openly and sensitively to others who are different from themselves. Within the limitations of its resources, Colgate extends opportunities to academically qualified students without regard to their ability to finance their education.

While we celebrate our diversity, we function as one institution. Although we work together for the success of the university, we also recognize that our differences enrich the experiences of all of us. Groups that lead a separate existence do not support the whole, and those who forsake their culture impoverish all, depriving us of the richness of America's cultural background. We celebrate that difficult balance between the commonalities of human experience and the particularities of our individual lives.

The sense of community that begins in student/faculty dialogue and continues in the residential college is furthered by Colgate's general education program. The faculty at Colgate are deeply committed to the idea that the common experience of a shared core curriculum provides the foundation for dialogue both in the classroom and in campus residences. Students and faculty engage those persistent questions and problems that are general to human life as well as new questions raised by technological developments and the proliferation of knowledge. General education at Colgate focuses on questions that transcend disciplinary interests and lie at the intersection of the social, political, economic, and philosophical transformations that have marked the 20th century.

To understand the human condition and the world in which we live requires both analysis and synthesis. We divide knowledge into manageable pieces to achieve understanding in depth, and we integrate the particular to achieve general understanding. Colgate offers a broad array of academic majors, both disciplinary and interdisciplinary, to assure learning in depth, while the program of general education synthesizes the insights of the disciplines into a more coherent understanding of human experience.

The general education sequence of courses takes students not only to various historical moments but also to a variety of social and cultural locations. Colgate puts different cultures, Western and non-­Western, in conversation with one another in order that students might see that culture, like the human condition, is not given a priori; it is learned. In order to build upon the knowledge gained in the general education program and to enable students to increase their capacity to view their own culture and to learn how others see us, Colgate annually offers an extensive array of faculty-­directed study abroad programs in more than twenty locations in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Orientation programs enable students, regardless of their area of study, to prepare for study abroad by examining what it means to live in another culture, and they share their experiences when they return to campus. Almost half of each class participates in some form of off-campus study during their undergraduate career.

Finally, Colgate recognizes that those who lead are obligated to help others in need. That obligation must be nurtured, especially in a society that stresses the personal over the communal. Colgate is a nonsectarian institution, but it emphasizes individual and social responsibility to serve the less fortunate. Colgate engages this obligation through an extensive program of service learning and through fostering an ethos that balances individual freedom with social good. Service activities increasingly enhance classroom understanding of social institutions and their expression.

In sum, the mission of Colgate University is to create and nurture an environment most conducive to the creation of self-­knowledge and public knowledge.

The Third-Century Plan
Colgate University is a distinctive institution of national reputation. Entering is third century, Colgate seeks to pursue its mission at an even higher level. The Third-Century Plan is a long-term framework for that quest.

Colgate’s liberal arts approach prepares graduates for success in a wide variety of careers.
Backed by an active and engaged alumni network and a robust Colgate Career Services office, career development is a priority through all four years of the student experience, and beyond.

"The $16.4 million, 17,000-square-foot Benton Hall at Colgate... is painstakingly wired with cutting-edge technology and is designed to help students prepare for life after college through fellowships, internships, graduate school or career counseling."

Colgate Career Services brings significant expertise to bear helping students to explore professional possibilities and find the opportunities they wish to pursue. Students have access to peer advisers, professional career counselors, and informational resources as they begin thinking about life after Colgate.
Career exploration is a process in which students should engage throughout their four years on campus, and they are invited to do so early and often.

Employers and graduate programs now expect competitive candidates to amass a minimum of two significant career-related experiences by the point at which they apply for a post-graduate opportunity.
Learn how Colgate’s career development resources help students secure internship and fellowship placements that open doors to future opportunities.

Staff in Colgate Career Services endeavor to connect students directly to potential employers. Colgate’s Benton Hall provides dedicated space for visiting recruiters to interview with students on campus, and customized digital interfaces also allow for virtual face-to-face meetings.

The Colgate alumni network is unrivaled in its passion for supporting current students. Colgate alumni “pay it forward,” volunteering time and expertise to career exploration programs, job shadowing, internship opportunities, and more.

Leveraging the power of networking within the Colgate alumni community is one of the most common ways that students find incredible career opportunities. Learn more about this network, and how it is fostered.

Colgate is a distinctive, leading university, known for its intellectual rigor, world-class professors, and campus of stunning beauty in the heart of upstate New York. Students at Colgate discover an ambitious and supportive experience that prepares them to thrive in life and in work. 