We have taken to heart the revolutionary spirit that founded our university and encourage each other to pursue unpredicted lines of thinking in order to effect change on local and international scales.

Cornell is a privately endowed research university and a partner of the State University of New York. As the federal land-grant institution in New York State, we have a responsibility—unique within the Ivy League—to make contributions in all fields of knowledge in a manner that prioritizes public engagement to help improve the quality of life in our state, the nation, the world.

A deep-rooted commitment to outreach, extension and engagement infuses our state, domestic and global mission of developing knowledge that benefits humanity.

Cornell was founded on the principle that our labs, classrooms and extension programs focus on societal challenges. A robust exchange of ideas with communities and citizens allows us to learn from, and develop and implement solutions to, fundamental public concerns.

The real-world perspectives and collaboration found in community-engaged courses enhance students’ academic experiences and prepare them for leadership positions after graduation.

Cornell supports a community of scholars known for radical collaboration spanning disciplines, locations and industries and focused on translating ideas into solutions.

Cornell’s public engagement extends beyond the boundaries of New York state to people and communities around the world — urban and rural, private and public.

By applying field research to public engagement, Cornell produces transformative solutions to the world’s most challenging societal problems.

With more than 100 specialized centers, institutes and programs for cutting-edge science, Cornell research improves lives in countless ways.

Engaged Cornell advances the university’s mission through community-engaged discovery and learning that contribute to solving many of the world’s biggest challenges.

Engaged Cornell appears across campus and around the world in work led by students, faculty, staff and their community partners. Cornell’s colleges and schools offer a vast array of engaged programming, which is supported and augmented by many other units on campus, including those in the Engaged Cornell Hub.

As the land-grant institution in New York state, we have a special responsibility — unique among the Ivy League — for research and public engagement. We are a university community committed to improving the quality of life in New York state, the nation and the world.

Cornell is working to:
Continually improve on our demographic diversity.
Promote a genuine sense of belonging for all members of the Cornell community.
Prepare all constituents for an interconnected diverse world.
Utilize and leverage the diversity of thought, backgrounds, and identities of our constituents for innovation and scholarly excellence

Cornell's vision statement, Open Doors, Open Hearts, Open Minds, was formally adopted by all university governance bodies (the Employee Assembly, the University Assembly, the Student Assembly, the Faculty Senate, and the Graduate and Professional Student Assembly) nearly two decades ago (2000).  This vision still holds true to what our community is committed to.

"I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study." This statement, made by Ezra Cornell in 1865, proclaims Cornell University's enduring commitment to inclusion and opportunity, which is rooted in the shared democratic values envisioned by its founders. We honor this legacy of diversity and inclusion and welcome all individuals, including those from groups that historically have been marginalized and previously excluded from equal access to opportunity.

Cornell's mission is to foster personal discovery and growth, nurture scholarship and creativity across a broad range of common knowledge, and affirm the value to individuals and society of the cultivation of the human mind and spirit. Our legacy is reflected in the diverse composition of our community, the breadth of our curriculum, the strength of our public service, and the depth of our commitment to freedom, equity, and reason. Each member of the Cornell community has a responsibility to honor this legacy and to support a more diverse and inclusive campus in which to work, study, teach, research, and serve.

Free expression is essential to this mission, and provocative ideas lawfully presented are an expected result. An enlightened academic community, however, connects freedom with responsibility. Cornell stands for civil discourse, reasoned thought, sustained discussion, and constructive engagement without degrading, abusing, harassing, or silencing others. Cornell is committed to act responsibly and forthrightly to maintain an environment that opens doors, opens hearts, and opens minds.

Cornell is a global leader in sustainability and climate change research, teaching and engagement. Our campuses are living laboratories for developing, testing and implementing solutions that address these most challenging issues.

Our campuses are living laboratories for sustainability and climate change research.

If you want to be a Cornellian, you want to be challenged. You want to define your own journey. You want to engage with and help others. You want to effect change in the world and in yourself. Whatever you choose to study, we'll give you myriad opportunities and the space to interact with a diverse and adventurous cohort. But it will be up to you to command your own educational transformation.

You'll interact closely with world-class faculty and a diverse student body, each a collaborator in learning, in research, and in service. They're here to help you push yourself and your ideas further than you could ever push them on your own.

You'll actively explore the material before you, design a formal line of inquiry and follow it, work with various teams, and get your hands dirty. This may be the Ivy League, but we exist in and learn from the world around us.

Public service is a pillar of Cornell academics. It not only enriches the community—it enriches your understanding of how ideas work in the real world.

Our home is on the Hill in Ithaca, New York, but you can study just about anywhere your academic inquiries take you.

From the laboratory bench to the hospital bedside and from cultural evolution to concepts in sustainability, our researchers and scholars are translating discovery into meaningful, measurable impact that is changing the world for the better.

We don't separate life and education. At Cornell living is learning.

Learning is a way of life. And life at Cornell is meant to pique your curiosity and stimulate your intellect at every turn. Whether that means conversations with faculty members over dinner at your residence hall or a trip to New York City for underground jazz, the opportunities are yours for the choosing.

With more than 1,000 student organizations on campus, there's a community for every interest. And what doesn't exist is easy to create.

Cornell has a way of being as small as you want it to be and as big as you make it. One of the first things you'll notice when you arrive is that the many groups, activities, and opportunities offered mean there's probably already a community waiting for you to come hang out.

“One of the benefits of going to a school like Cornell University is that you can connect with a community of like-minded and supportive people.”

Word on the Hill is that students love Ithaca and Ithaca loves its students.
Home to three institutes of higher learning, Ithaca knows what it means to be a vibrant, diverse, and inclusive college town. There's always something going on: festivals, volunteer programs, nightlife. And it sits right in the heart of the Finger Lakes Region—a beautiful reason to get out and about.

“In Ithaca, there are a lot of outdoorsy things to do, and there's tons of good food to be found.”