A Dartmouth education is unlike any other. Through person-to-person teaching and opportunities to create and apply knowledge on campus and across the globe, Dartmouth instills a love of learning among its students and empowers them for a lifetime of leadership.

Being a Dartmouth College student means being taught and mentored by outstanding faculty while belonging to a dynamic community.
Dartmouth's four graduate schools train practitioners and scholars whose discoveries change the world.

Explore the undergraduate majors and graduate programs of study available at Dartmouth.

Dartmouth's Faculty of Arts & Sciences includes more than 40 academic departments and interdisciplinary programs.

Dartmouth students and scholars are global citizens, actively engaged in international study, research, and collaboration.

The extensive print and digital collections of Dartmouth’s libraries support research, teaching, and intellectual discovery.

Intensive language study, alumni travel courses, and professional development are among the opportunities for ongoing learning at Dartmouth.

With a year-round academic calendar, campus life at Dartmouth doesn’t take a summer vacation.

Dartmouth’s faculty across five schools—Arts & Sciences, School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, Geisel School of Medicine, Thayer School of Engineering, and the Tuck School of Business—are among the world’s leading scholars, expanding human knowledge through research at the highest levels of their disciplines.

Dartmouth inspires unparalleled passion. We live where we learn, and develop close, enduring connections through intellectual discovery, athletics, the arts, community service, and more.

The Dartmouth Green: The heart of campus, where students, faculty, and staff cross paths several times a day, contributing to a powerful sense of place and community. And when the Baker Bell Tower plays the “Alma Mater” at 6 p.m. every day, you know you're home.

With all the events and activities happening on campus every day—guest lectures, student presentations, performances, arts events, athletic contests, and more—the Events Calendar will ensure that you don’t miss a thing.

A member of the Ivy League, Dartmouth was founded in 1769 and is among the world's leading academic institutions.

The liberal ARTs: Creativity is at the heart of a Dartmouth education. The thriving campus arts district unites the Hopkins Center for the Arts, the Hood Museum of Art, and the Black Family Visual Arts Center. Find what moves you here.

One of the nation’s foremost campus-based arts centers, the “Hop” annually presents a broad array of world-class music, dance, theater, and film programs, as well as more than 100 performances, including those by students.

Housing one of the oldest and largest (more than 70,000 works) American university art collections, the Hood facilitates meaningful encounters with art for the campus and greater communities.

Dartmouth’s academic arts departments—Art History, Film and Media Studies, Music, Studio Art, and Theater—enrich the curriculum and the life of the arts on campus.

From the Gospel Choir to dance, Dartmouth students—and in some cases community members—perform in nine ensembles, working with distinguished directors and engaging with renowned guest artists.

Get moving. You’ll find plenty of motivation to participate in Dartmouth’s athletics—more than 75 percent of undergraduate students are involved in sports. Dartmouth boasts national and Ivy League champions among its 35 Division I varsity teams and 33 club sports.

Many cultures, one community. At Dartmouth, differences are embraced and ideas are challenged. Our diverse community of students, faculty, and staff come together to share perspectives, learn, and grow.

Outdoors and unbounded. With the Appalachian Trail running through campus and the Connecticut River just steps away, outdoor activities are always accessible here. The Dartmouth Outing Club (DOC) is the country’s oldest and largest collegiate outing club, with membership open to all.

Living and learning. At Dartmouth, you'll be part of a close-knit community that’s anchored by campus life. Whether in the undergraduate residence halls or the graduate student apartments near campus, you're always near friends and faculty.

Expand your limits. Write for a literary magazine, work on a political cause, play in a musical ensemble, organize a backcountry ski trip. As a Dartmouth student, you’ll have every opportunity to involve yourself in an extraordinarily rich range of student clubs and activities that connect you with the community and with your strengths.

Make a Difference. Community service and civic engagement are vital to the Dartmouth experience. Students, faculty, staff, and alumni dedicate their time and talents to make a positive difference locally and around the world.

Green by choice. From what we study to how we live, sustainability impacts every aspect of life at Dartmouth.

An education for life. One of the world’s greatest academic institutions and a member of the Ivy League, Dartmouth has been educating leaders since 1769. Our undergraduate and graduate programs are distinguished by academic excellence, personal attention from top faculty, opportunities to participate in research, and a close-knit community. Begin your journey here.

Widely recognized for the extraordinary quality of its undergraduate teaching, Dartmouth offers a liberal arts education for the 21st century: education in and beyond the classroom, plus the preparation to go out and change the world.

Dartmouth's graduate students benefit from world-class facilities, outstanding faculty, and a commitment to individual education. Choose from 27 master's and doctoral programs in the humanities and the health, natural, physical, and computer sciences, as well as joint and interdisciplinary degrees.

At Geisel, the nation's fourth oldest medical school, students learn from renowned teachers, clinicians, and researchers as they become leaders who will tackle the most vexing problems in health care. 

Collaborative, cross-disciplinary, entrepreneurial—Thayer School's unified department of engineering sciences prepares undergraduates, MEM, MS, and PhD students to solve humanity's most difficult problems.

"Integrity in all endeavors, teamwork that reaches beyond oneself in a supportive community, and a time-honored belief that the highest-quality learning comes from connecting amazing students with leading scholars. Around the world, people recognize these values as the foundation of Tuck's success."
—Dean Matthew J. Slaughter

Higher learning. Professional and graduate programs across Dartmouth's schools—Geisel School of Medicine, the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, Thayer School of Engineering and the Tuck School of Business—have a distinguished history of training practitioners and scholars whose discoveries and expertise change the world.

Thayer School of Engineering is one of the oldest professional schools of engineering in the country and features a single unified department of engineering sciences.

Founded in 1900 as the first graduate school of management, the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth has long been recognized among the leading business schools in the world. Tuck focuses on the full-time MBA and offers additional programs, including executive education and other non-degree programs.

Since 1885, graduate and advanced studies at Dartmouth has combined world-class research facilities with an outstanding faculty.  The Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies facilitates innovation, supports collaboration, and delivers a unique blend of research opportunities and individualized education. Today, the School awards all PhD, MS, and MA degrees at Dartmouth. 

The nation's fourth-oldest medical school, Geisel encompasses 18 clinical and basic science departments, and draws on the resources of Dartmouth College and its affiliated teaching hospitals. In addition to the MD degree, the Geisel School offers graduate education in the biomedical sciences, public health, and health care delivery science.

Centers of knowledge. Research, learning, and public dialogue meet in the activities of Dartmouth’s centers and institutes.
The centers listed below represent a sample from across the institution. A comprehensive list of the more than 50 research centers at Dartmouth is also available.

The Institute's mission is to advance an affordable, sustainable, and reliable energy future for the benefit of society by developing the next generation of energy experts, leaders, and citizens and by transforming humankind's understanding of energy systems across technological, environmental, economic, geopolitical, and cultural perspectives.

The Center, at the Tuck School of Business, prepares leaders to understand, shape, and succeed in the dynamic interactions between business and government in the global economy.

Welcome to Global Dartmouth, a division of Dartmouth's Office of the Provost. Our role is to support and facilitate international research collaboration, advise on establishing and sustaining institutional cooperative agreements, and provide travel-related resources for Dartmouth students, faculty, and staff. We advise on all aspects of international academic collaboration at Dartmouth, provide travel and research grants to Dartmouth faculty members, and work with partners around the world. Lisa Adams serves as the Director of Global Initiatives at Dartmouth. Please see her bio here. 

At Dartmouth, we have cultivated an environment that nurtures, encourages, and values creativity. We recruit gifted faculty whose love of teaching and artistic talents stimulate students to discover and develop their potential. We bring to campus celebrated artists to perform, to talk about their professions, and to share the lessons they have learned. The arts are integral to our liberal arts curriculum, and we encourage students of all majors to explore them through the many courses and programs we offer.

If you can picture yourself performing on stage, studying and taking courses in the new Black Family Visual Arts Center, having coffee with your professor, or exploring subjects you never thought you would, Dartmouth is right for you.

The arts have long been a central part of a liberal arts education at Dartmouth. The school’s vibrant arts culture affirms its role as one of the nation’s leading academic arts communities. Don’t miss your chance to take advantage of the diverse series of arts programs and initiatives Dartmouth has to offer.

As an Ivy League university, Dartmouth offers an education like no other. We expect you to change the world for the better, and we give you the tools to make it happen.

The Call to Lead is a bold invitation to Dartmouth’s global community to engage with the most pressing human concerns of our times. Through this $3 billion campaign, we will effect change and improve lives around the world by pursuing three key goals.

This is a campaign for everyone who loves Dartmouth—and believes in the power of future generations. Thousands of alumni, parents, and friends have supported Dartmouth through The Call to Lead. Join us by giving to the Dartmouth initiatives, schools, or institutes that mean the most to you. Now is our time to change the world!

Today’s Dartmouth students and faculty want to make a difference right now in our complex, global, technology-driven society. Their work begins here in Hanover. You can join their efforts by investing in the part of the campaign that speaks to your own interests.

Today’s Dartmouth students and faculty want to make a difference right now in our complex, global, technology-driven society. Their work begins here in Hanover. You can join their efforts by investing in the part of the campaign that speaks to your own interests.

