Intellectual rigor. Social justice. Self-reflection. They’re knitted together in every facet of your Georgetown experience – in your studies, your research, your interactions with faculty and the career decisions you make.

Washington is the epicenter of global politics. It’s also your hotspot for art, activism, entrepreneurship and public service. Think of the city as an extension of campus. Whether you intern on Capitol Hill, conduct research for an NGO or take time out at an embassy party, it’s your DC.

The Hilltop: It’s a community that’s bursting with energy and ideas. You feel it in residences built around shared passions and in graduate co-living spaces. You see it in the way we own our many differences. At Georgetown, you belong.

Georgetown University is one of the world’s leading academic and research institutions, offering a unique educational experience that prepares the next generation of global citizens to lead and make a difference in the world. We are a vibrant community of exceptional students, faculty, alumni and professionals dedicated to real-world applications of our research, scholarship, faith and service.

Established in 1789, Georgetown is the nation’s oldest Catholic and Jesuit university. Drawing upon the 450-year-old legacy of Jesuit education, we provide students with a world-class learning experience focused on educating the whole person through exposure to different faiths, cultures and beliefs.

Students are challenged to engage in the world and become people in the service of others, especially the most vulnerable and disadvantaged members of the community. These values are at the core of Georgetown’s identity, bringing together members of the community across diverse backgrounds.

The seal of Georgetown University. It bears the founding date, 1789, the university motto “Utraque Unum” (both into one) and the Latin inscription Collegium Georgiopolitanum Ad Ripas Potomaci in Marylandia, which means “Georgetown College on the Banks of the Potomac in Maryland.”

We’re a leading research university with a heart. Founded in the decade that the U.S. Constitution was signed, we’re the nation’s oldest Catholic and Jesuit university. Today we’re a forward-looking, diverse community devoted to social justice, restless inquiry and respect for each person’s individual needs and talents.

We’re a community of people who bridge our disparate experiences and identities. Meet the people and places that make Georgetown home.

“Georgetown is home to me not because of the fancy buildings like Healy Hall, or its prestigious reputation, but rather because of the university’s care for the whole person as each of us attempts to live our lives for others.”

Our holistic approach to education, the rigorous spirit of inquiry that makes our community and alumni a force for change in the world, our commitment to social justice – all underly everything we do as an institution with a rich Catholic and Jesuit heritage.

You’ll come to Georgetown to deepen your passions and beliefs, and you’ll leave as the person you were always meant to be. Your heart and mind will open as you connect with a community that shares a commitment to social justice and the common good.

“It’s likely that you will come to love some of the most amazing souls this campus has to offer. That love may come in the form of friendships that you know will last forever. Or maybe it will find its way to your heart through mentors who will offer guidance and perspectives that could change your worldview entirely.” -Jerome

“Research is detective work and that is what truly appealed to me… I try to focus on what gets me excited, and that is really appealing to students’ imaginations and framing it in the context of discovery.” -Professor Chandan Vaidya

“I was fortunate enough to have a couple of ambassadors and former ambassadors as professors, [and that] opened a whole new universe to me of opportunity. So, my time at the School of Foreign Service was really formative, and I am glad I can lean on it in some respects as ambassador.” – Alaina

We are a community that’s bursting with energy and ideas. You feel it in residences built around shared passions and our over 350 clubs and organizations. You see it in the way we own our many differences. Wherever you come from and wherever you’re headed, there’s a place for you at Georgetown.

Find your home in one of our 17 undergraduate residences, including rooms, suites, townhouses and apartments. You’ll create lifelong friendships by living and learning together as you bond over Netflix nights, shared meals, homework and more.

Are you a foodie? Then get excited. From numerous meal options on the Hilltop to the more than 2,000 restaurants in DC, you’ll find the culinary experience of a lifetime – locally sourced and cuisine of every imaginable ethnicity.

Sing, dance, create, volunteer, compete, debate or worship – there’s a club for everyone at Georgetown. Build a new skill, lead a team or help others as you find your friends through the university’s many student clubs and organizations.

We live at the intersection of teaching and doing, where learning is more than the transmission of knowledge, it is an act of collaboration and practice. Under the mentorship of our distinguished faculty, you’ll go beyond the information to not just learn about your field, but also to learn your field’s way of thinking. Through lectures, small group projects, independent studies, office hours, internships and more, you’ll leave Georgetown with the intellectual skills of perception, analysis, interpretation and expression.

“I have the ability to explore what I am interested and passionate in, which doesn’t necessarily follow directly what I am studying in my major.”

“The emphasis upon a well-rounded liberal arts education … has given me the opportunity to delve into diverse course offerings.”

“As a 24-year-old Marine Corps Infantryman, covered in tattoos, with a breadth of unique experiences, I was the epitome of a “non-traditional student.” Aside from the vast opportunities that existed in the SFS, it was the community that assured me, despite my non-traditional background, that I would belong too.”

Explore the intersection of technology and society. Learn about environmental justice. Take the famous Problem of God course. Our innovative courses inspire and invite you to help solve some of today’s most pressing local, national and global issues.

Create a new app for an underserved population. Improve services for parents and children or create a groundbreaking new health device. We provide the intellectual depth, innovation and social justice framework so you can help make a better world.

We are a community that’s bursting with energy and ideas. You feel it in residences built around shared passions and our over 350clubs and organizations. You see it in the way we own our many differences. Wherever you come from and wherever you’re headed, there’s a place for you at Georgetown.

The Jesuit value of cura personalis, “care of the whole person,” represents the mission of Georgetown University. The Academic Resource Center embodies this value by guiding students in their intellectual, emotional and social development.

The Academic Resource Center provides students with academic strategies and individualized support needed for academic success and inclusion within the Georgetown community. The center offers the following support services:

The Academic Resource Center strives to work collaboratively with the various departments in Student Affairs, academic deans’ offices, and other University offices to ensure that students receive the necessary and appropriate support to achieve their personal, academic, and professional goals.

We are a global research community collaborating across our campuses and around the world. As people for others, our students and professors seek the truth to solve problems locally and globally. We’re probing major health and science frontiers and tackling data to shape public policy and understand how society can use technological advances for good. From bench to bedside and practice to policy we are innovators, incubating ideas to improve our communities and inform policy. We share ideas and shape the future.

Your daily exposure to our brilliant and innovative faculty community will lead you to groundbreaking science research conducted through support from NASA, NIH and other top agencies.

“I’ve learned how to become a scientist, I’ve learned how to be an independent person and to think analytically and critically. To seek out help when I need it, but also to persevere when challenges arise and not give up, because challenges and hurdles and error messages occur every day.” – Grant Rosensteel (C’19), about his research experience.

By tackling some of the most critical intellectual and social issues of the day, Georgetown’s faculty and researchers demonstrate their commitment to academic excellence and serving others. Our researchers explore a diverse range of issues – from the science of drug discovery to dialogue on religious identity – making us a community devoted to understanding and improving the world around us.

Our Tech & Society Initiative is a dynamic interdisciplinary collaboration among Georgetown’s nine schools, three D.C. campuses, and countless centers and institutes—with a shared goal to shape technology’s promise for a better world. Tech & Society aims to equip the world’s next generation of leaders by navigating complex issues at the intersection of technology, ethics, and governance.

Our Environment Initiative is a multi-campus effort to advance the interdisciplinary study of the environment in relation to society, scientific understanding, sound policy, and the broad and complex challenges we face as stewards of the planet’s natural resources.

In partnership with local governments and organizations around the globe, our Center for Global Health Practice and Impact serves countries to sustainably improve their population’s health and wellbeing and safeguard against health-related threats.

Our Global Cities Initiative is an academic community dedicated to creating and sharing inter-disciplinary knowledge of cities, their communities and the opportunities associated with unprecedented global urbanization. Through this dialogue, we align more than 60 faculty scholars and practitioners engaged in urban research who are not otherwise linked through their traditional academic disciplines.

Our Humanities Initiative aims to support the research and teaching of the university’s humanistic scholars. Through the projects it funds and the programming it develops, the Initiative strives to support work that has a deep impact in the academy while also engaging the public by demonstrating the continuing value of the humanities for understanding the challenges and opportunities of the human condition.

Georgetown is home to internationally-renowned scholars who address critical global issues through their research and teaching. Faculty experts across Georgetown's nine schools are part of a global knowledge network that stretches from Washington, D.C., to our campus in Doha, Qatar, encompassing leading universities, think tanks, and other partners around the world.

Located in the nation’s capital, Georgetown offers opportunities to engage with global leaders in government, business, society, and the academy. Experts from around the world speak and teach on campus and students can pursue internships and other professional opportunities with leading D.C.-based organizations.

We believe it’s important to sustain a truly diverse community. That’s why we commit to meet the financial need of every admitted undergraduate student. We don’t consider your ability to pay when we review your application, and we don’t base our decision on whether you can cover the cost. If you’re accepted here, you belong here.

“Why did I come to Georgetown? I liked the idea of a liberal arts education that would provide me with a wholesome and expansive knowledge of topics that were outside my intended major and fields of interest.”






