Curiosity can take you anywhere.
This is more than a place, and much bigger than an idea. Grinnell is a way of being and seeing. It’s an unwavering commitment to the journey of discovery, both in everything we want to do and everything we want to become.

NO TWO JOURNEYS ARE THE SAME. IN FACT, WE'VE DESIGNED IT THAT WAY.
Welcome to the world of intellectual freedom. Here, you're in charge of how your studies take shape and where you want them to take you.

"Grinnell was really the first place where I actually had the chance, or the self-awareness, to pursue something that was a little bit out of my comfort zone."

From here, the great go forth.
Founded in 1846, we’re a private, coed, residential liberal arts and sciences college located in Grinnell, Iowa. Our community embraces intellectual journeys of all kinds, and provides the individualized guidance to dive deeper, define new directions, and follow their passions across the world. We call ourselves Grinnellians.

No two Grinnellians are the same. But something brings us all together here, and keeps us rooted to this place, no matter how far we journey. Maybe it’s how our community embraces you for who you are. Or maybe it’s how we empower you to take part in shaping who we are as well.

Our leadership style reflects the kind of leaders we want to see in the world. Town-hall meetings and community hours bring together students, faculty, and administrators to discuss issues of purpose, responsibility, and justice. It’s just one of the ways our students become active and vocal citizens, both here on campus and beyond.

We celebrate individuals anywhere who better our world.
The Grinnell College Innovator for Social Justice Prize honors individuals who are leading social change with responsibility, commitment, and creativity — bettering the world in a way we recognize as Grinnellian. We’re proud to give them the recognition they deserve.

Taking the temperature of the heated discussions of our time.
Grinnell is a place where honest conversations happen and differing opinions collide. But what happens when we launch an innovative study that documents the details? Well, it might just bring forth a fresh perspective and influence the national discourse.

The prairieland may seem like an unexpected setting for bringing the world together. But look closer. You’ll uncover a unique mixture of environmental, economic, and political ecosystems.  In fact, one visit to our vibrant, progressive college town will call into question everything you think you know about Iowa.

Our leaders at Grinnell are here for a reason: to make an impact. They care deeply about the world, and believe Grinnellians will go on to shape it for the better. Whether administrative or students themselves, our leaders work alongside all members of the community. In fact, we’ve earned a reputation for open, transparent, respectful discussions about campus issues. Meaning: position doesn’t take precedence. 

Students have a say and responsibility in creating the environment they learn best in. Our offices and administration honor the traditions of the past and are responsive to the needs of both current and future students. Essentially, everyone has a role in making Grinnell what it is today, and what it will be tomorrow.

Before coming to Grinnell, Dr. Raynard S. Kington served in a range of positions at the National Institutes of Health, including principal deputy director and acting director. Both personally and professionally, he carries a strong commitment to social responsibility, including access to education and immigration reform. Find out more about one of the College’s most transformative presidents.  

Students and faculty work together to ensure that the many elements of the Grinnell experience meet the highest standards and align with our mission as an institution.

Senators. Treasurers. Ambassadors. Many Grinnellians go on to notable leadership roles in communities and industries all over the globe. And many of them get their start by representing Grinnell’s student body in similar roles here on campus.

With so many curious minds in our community, we’re used to inquiries of all kinds. That’s exactly why we have a great complement of specialized offices and services, each fully staffed with knowledgeable experts who can help with anything you need.

Even though we’re a collective of fiercely curious individuals, we do agree on a few things. And we hold each other to them.

We were founded in 1846. We’re a private, coed, residential liberal arts and sciences college in Grinnell, Iowa. Around 9,000 people live in our town. About 1,700 students attend the College. We call ourselves Grinnellians. We’re committed to contributing to the common good, and we’re consistently ranked among the nation’s best liberal arts colleges.

We provide individually advised learning for the intellectually motivated. A place where freedom and academic rigor coexist and complement each other. And our curriculum has only one class that is required for all students. The rest is up to you.

Social responsibility, cultural awareness, and mutual respect are big for us. This is place where diverse perspectives collide and differences are celebrated. As thoughtful citizens, we take ownership of the well-being of our community.

Our alumni do important and fulfilling work in industries, graduate programs, and communities of all kinds. Many Grinnellians are awarded prestigious fellowships, travel the world, and conduct research under the aegis of the Fulbright Program, the Watson Foundation, and more.

When Grinnell College framed its charter in the Iowa Territory of the United States in 1846, it set forth a mission to educate its students "for the different professions and for the honorable discharge of the duties of life." The College pursues that mission by providing an education in the liberal arts through free inquiry and the open exchange of ideas. 

As a teaching and learning community, the College holds that knowledge is a good to be pursued both for its own sake and for the intellectual, moral, and physical well-being of individuals and of society at large. The College exists to provide a lively academic community of students and teachers of high scholarly qualifications from diverse social and cultural circumstances. 

The College aims to graduate individuals who can think clearly, who can speak and write persuasively and even eloquently, who can evaluate critically both their own and others' ideas, who can acquire new knowledge, and who are prepared in life and work to use their knowledge and their abilities to serve the common good.

Grinnell College's mission is to provide "an education in the liberal arts through free inquiry and the open exchange of ideas." Free inquiry and open exchange require exposure to a diversity of perspectives and respectful engagement with those perspectives across our differences. Indeed, such engagement is vital for an intellectual community committed to the production and sharing of knowledge.  

This requires providing a learning environment that is both tolerant of disagreement and committed to civil dialogue that respectfully embraces our shared humanity. Grinnell must support and encourage free speech and expression, while creating an environment free from harassment and discrimination. As we endeavor to balance these multiple responsibilities, several principles guide us:

Because we value a diversity of peoples and perspectives, our campus environment must be an inclusive space that cultivates both critical thinking and dialogue across difference. Since education and learning are our focus, we must be willing to tolerate the discomfort of having our views respectfully challenged. 

We must also be willing to confidently share our own perspectives without stifling the rights of others to do so. Inclusive teaching practices and effective communication skills are essential to creating a positive learning environment for our students.

Freedom of speech and freedom of expression are rights protected by the U.S. Constitution, and these rights belong to all domestic and international Grinnellians. The College has a responsibility to respect these rights but may establish rules governing the time, place, and manner of speech, expression, and protest. 

The College is also responsible for dealing with those who engage in behaviors that infringe upon the rights of others. Behaviors designed to intimidate or hinder others from accessing the benefits provided by the College are strictly prohibited. Harassment and discrimination will not be tolerated and may result in disciplinary outcomes and/or legal consequences.

Academic freedom supports freedom of inquiry and exchange, a fundamental value of the educational enterprise and our institutional mission. In addition to constitutional free-speech protections, Grinnell College faculty members are entitled to academic freedom in their teaching, research, and publishing, as defined in the Faculty Handbook. This entitlement comes with the duty to maintain professional ethics and uphold College policies against discrimination and harassment.

In summary, Grinnell College endeavors to balance multiple responsibilities as we prioritize student learning and serving the common good. These responsibilities include providing a lively, rigorous, educational experience that supports diversity as a core value, upholding the parallel and complementary ideals of freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and academic freedom, and protecting our community members from harassment and discrimination.

Grinnell’s diverse and inclusive community isn’t just a warm and welcoming place to spend four years — it’s also an essential part of your education here. That’s because we all benefit when we seek to understand different viewpoints. Doing so requires us to examine, expand, and sometimes even challenge our own beliefs.

No matter where you’re from or what your background, this intentionally diverse, close-knit community creates friendships that will expand your horizons — and could change your life.

Explore how campus offices such as the Office of International Student Affairs, the Office of Intercultural Affairs, and the Office for Diversity and Inclusion facilitate interactions. While you’re at it, check out the Black Cultural Center and Stonewall Resource Center — student-staffed sites that also offer programming and events. Beyond that, dozens of student-run organizations focus on diversity and cultural issues.

Explore how campus offices such as the Office of International Student Affairs, the Office of Intercultural Affairs, and the Office for Diversity and Inclusion facilitate interactions. While you’re at it, check out the Black Cultural Center and Stonewall Resource Center — student-staffed sites that also offer programming and events. Beyond that, dozens of student-run organizations focus on diversity and cultural issues.

Grinnell’s social consciousness blossomed during Franklin D. Roosevelt’s presidency, when graduates Harry Hopkins ’12, Chester Davis ’11, Paul Appleby ’13, Hallie Ferguson Flanagan ’11, and Florence Stewart Kerr ’12 became influential New Deal administrators.

Today, Grinnell’s commitment to social justice continues through a strong philosophy of self governance and personal responsibility, as well as programs and initiatives that encourage students to learn about the world beyond the campus and effect positive social change.

For example, Grinnell’s Social Justice Action Group works towards peace, justice, and positive social change with efforts that fight hunger, promote volunteerism, and build understanding. The Wall Alumni Service Awards provide financial support for Grinnell alumni to engage in service projects, programs, and organizations dedicated to improving the lives of others. 

Under Grinnell’s Expanding Knowledge Initiative, the College has introduced curricular innovations in the areas of environmental challenges, human rights, and human dignity. The Liberal Arts in Prison Program, a collaborative effort by Grinnell students, faculty, and staff, engages incarcerated adults in courses in the liberal arts.

With the creation of the Grinnell Prize, the College is extending its educational mission beyond the campus and alumni community to individuals anywhere who believe innovative social justice programs create a better world. Through student internships and staff fellowships, student and staff members have the opportunity to work with the Prize winners and their organizations. Explore the Grinnellians and Winners pages to learn more about these opportunities and Grinnellians' experiences working with these outstanding individuals and organizations.

Activism and public service. Arts and entertainment. Business. Literature, science, and mathematics. Education. Government and politics. Journalism and media. Medicine and law. Retail, fashion, and sports. Pretty much any subject you can think of, there are Grinnellians who have made their mark.

With the College preparing to celebrate its quartoseptcentennial (that's 175 years), there's a lot of material to cover. From its abolitionist roots to the incubation of the Social Gospel movement, Grinnell has a deeply meaningful history and a legacy of activism.

We’ve built a legacy of social activism. But as a group of creative, passionate individuals, we’ve also got a few traditions that you won’t find anywhere else.

Sure, we’re well known for our strong academic legacy. But for true Grinnellians, our name brings to mind a few other traditions.
There are the picturesque loggias. The jungle gyms built into Burling Library. The train tracks that cut right through campus. Our campus, with its mix of historical and modern architecture, is one that Grinnellians are proud to call home.


