"I’ve learned how to think through experiments and solve problems scientifically. I can bring this knowledge to any class I take as an undergrad and wherever my post-grad plans might lead."

From academics and athletics to opportunities for spiritual development, the Holy Cross undergraduate experience is among the best in the nation — preparing students for fulfilling leadership roles in every aspect of life.

The College of the Holy Cross is, by tradition and choice, a Jesuit liberal arts college serving the Catholic community, American society, and the wider world. To participate in the life of Holy Cross is to accept an invitation to join in dialogue about basic human questions: What is the moral character of learning and teaching? How do we find meaning in life and history? What are our obligations to one another? What is our special responsibility to the world's poor and powerless?

As a liberal arts college, Holy Cross pursues excellence in teaching, learning, and research. All who share its life are challenged to be open to new ideas, to be patient with ambiguity and uncertainty, to combine a passion for truth with respect for the views of others. Informed by the presence of diverse interpretations of the human experience, Holy Cross seeks to build a community marked by freedom, mutual respect, and civility. 
Because the search for meaning and value is at the heart of the intellectual life, critical examination of fundamental religious and philosophical questions is integral to liberal arts education. Dialogue about these questions among people from diverse academic disciplines and religious traditions requires everyone to acknowledge and respect differences. Dialogue also requires us to remain open to that sense of the whole which calls us to transcend ourselves and challenges us to seek that which might constitute our common humanity.

The faculty and staff of Holy Cross, now primarily lay and religiously and culturally diverse, also affirm the mission of Holy Cross as a Jesuit college. As such, Holy Cross seeks to exemplify the longstanding dedication of the Society of Jesus to the intellectual life and its commitment to the service of faith and promotion of justice. The College is dedicated to forming a community which supports the intellectual growth of all its members while offering them opportunities for spiritual and moral development. In a special way, the College must enable all who choose to do so to encounter the intellectual heritage of Catholicism, to form an active worshipping community, and to become engaged in the life and work of the contemporary church.

Since 1843, Holy Cross has sought to educate students who, as leaders in business, professional, and civic life, would live by the highest intellectual and ethical standards. In service of this ideal, Holy Cross endeavors to create an environment in which integrated learning is a shared responsibility, pursued in classroom and laboratory, studio and theater, residence and chapel. Shared responsibility for the life and governance of the College should lead all its members to make the best of their own talents, to work together, to be sensitive to one another, to serve others, and to seek justice within and beyond the Holy Cross community.

With professors as mentors and classmates as fellow explorers, you’ll embark on a journey of intellectual discovery. Bring your ambition. Bring your sense of wonder. But most of all, bring your questions.

From familiar liberal arts programs like chemistry and history to student-designed majors such as international studies and architectural studies, Holy Cross offers majors, minors and interdisciplinary concentrations to suit every interest.

Our distinguished faculty members receive widespread recognition for their research, publications and creative pursuits — and are deeply devoted to sharing their knowledge and passion with Holy Cross students. 

What you learn during your four years here will provide the foundation for a lifetime of accomplishment. Our alumni are living proof.

Browse the complete listing of our academic departments and offices, where you can see course offerings, find contact information and more.

Wherever you are in your academic journey, there’s always someone at Holy Cross ready and willing to help out when needed.

What you learn during your four years here will provide the foundation for a lifetime of accomplishment. Our alumni are living proof.

Like just about everything at Holy Cross, the admissions process is all about who you are as an individual. It’s time to start your application — and we’re ready to help.

Holy Cross seeks to enroll dynamic students who pursue their passions with intensity, excel academically, and challenge themselves in and out of the classroom. Learn about recommended courses and activities, as well as how to represent your accomplishments in our application materials.

Holy Cross boasts a financial aid policy that few colleges can match: We meet 100 percent of a student’s demonstrated need, as calculated according to nationally recognized financial aid criteria.

Breakthrough research, entertaining activities, spirited athletics: Our campus crackles with excitement. Add in a profound sense of community, and you have a place you can enthusiastically call home.

There’s plenty of time at Holy Cross for laughing as well as learning. While you’ll benefit forever from the hard work you do here, the joyous moments you experience are a big part of what you’ll remember.

Our comfortable residence halls are conducive to making friends and building relationships, and more than 90 percent of our students take advantage by living on campus.

Our students never have to worry about what’s for dinner: Our nine campus eateries provide a huge range of dining options for all tastes.

Our students are committed to using their talents to empower others — whether it’s teaching computer skills to newly arrived immigrants, rebuilding homes on the Gulf Coast, or mentoring young people at the Boys and Girls Club of Worcester.

Our students are committed to using their talents to empower others — whether it’s teaching computer skills to newly arrived immigrants, rebuilding homes on the Gulf Coast, or mentoring young people at the Boys and Girls Club of Worcester.

The well-being of students comes first at Holy Cross — including the need for a safe and secure environment. Just as in their classes, Holy Cross students are in good hands when it comes to health support services.

Our athletic teams are a big deal on campus, and our entire community comes together to cheer them on. That said, with dozens of intramural sports and wellness options like yoga and ballroom dance, there a thousand ways to stay happy and healthy at Holy Cross.

Our home on The Hill is a safe and comfortable place to spend four years you’ll cherish for a lifetime.

Nurturing a diverse and inclusive community where everyone feels equally at home is a fundamental part of teaching, learning and working at Holy Cross.

We regard respect and concern for the environment as an essential dimension of leadership. That’s why Holy Cross is on track to become carbon neutral by 2040.

As the second largest city in New England, our home of Worcester is an active and vibrant community replete with arts, restaurant and entertainment options. We also offer transportation options that make it easy to explore farther afield.

Some of our traditions are steeped in religion and reflection. Others give us a chance to celebrate our accomplishments. A few are just plain fun. Check out some of the traditions that bring our community together.

At Holy Cross, we strive to act in ways that benefit others and increase the equality of all. We are deeply committed to maintaining a community of students, staff, and faculty members that respects women and men at the highest level, and that treats both equally and fairly.

At Holy Cross, the arts are alive and varied. Creative pursuits enhance our studies across every discipline, opening our minds to new ways of thinking and doing.

We do an exceptional job of preparing students who seek to pursue advanced studies, professional internships, and careers in the arts. Holy Cross alumni go on to prestigious graduate programs, residencies and conservatories, and many hold impressive positions in the artistic community. At the same time, the solid foundation and knowledge of the arts that students gain at Holy Cross serves as a launching pad into any number of possible career paths.  
From the stage to the concert hall, the art studio to the workshop, there are numerous ways to get involved with the arts on campus.

Cantor Art Gallery, Brooks Concert Hall and Fenwick Theatre are just a few of the diverse exhibition halls and performance spaces on campus. See the full array.
Check out the dynamic arts performances and events that Holy Cross has lined up.
Our new performing arts center will be the central hub for shared programming across the arts disciplines, featuring a proscenium theatre for music, dance, and stage productions as well as additional performance spaces.


